Fix/oxedions/documentation update (#339)
bluebanquise/bluebanquise: resources/documentation/stories.rst

=======
Stories
=======

This part contains few stories to help you face common tasks / issues seen
while using the stack.

Management and main configuration
=================================

Versioning the inventory
------------------------

> It may be a good idea to version the whole /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/

Reviewer: Rephrase with **It is a good practice**?

Author: Solved.

folder, to keep track of all changes made, and be able to revert in case of
issues.

.. note::
  If used, it may be also a good idea to version the

>   /etc/bluebanquise/playbooks/ and /etc/bluebanquise/roles/custom/ folders.

Reviewer: I would add this note at the end of the section to focus first on the inventory part, then open to other folders/repo.

Author: Done.

> It may even be better to use an external to the cluster git platform (gitlab,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may even be better to use an external git platform (gitlab,
```

If we keep this proposal (push to external), can you please add a note about security: don't upload your inventory to public repositories as it may contain sensitive information about your infrastructure.

Author: Yes, solved.

etc.) to backup the whole configuration, and be able to push changes from the
cluster to this platform.

> To create a basic git repository, assuming you already have an in place
> configuration inside /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/, do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a basic git repository, assuming you already have an existing
configuration in /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/, do:
```

.. code-block:: text

  cd /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/
  git init
  git add --all

>   git commit --author="my_name <my_name@my_mail.org>" -m "First commit"

Reviewer: I would recommend:
```
git config user.name "Firstname Lastname"
git config user.email me@mydomain.org
```
before commit, then you can skip --author.

Author: Idea is: if there are multiple admins using the same git. Using the --author, they can work on the same repository, knowing who do what.

Reviewer: That's what I thought, however on some setup git will force to define user.name and user.email.
I have 2 ideas in mind to solve this multiple admin case. Let's merge like this, I will propose something later.

Author: Ok for me. We will have to add more content in stories anyways. 🙂

> It is now possible to commit new changes after each configuration manipulations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is now possible to commit new changes after each configuration change.
```

You can find a lot on the web about correct git repository usage, creating
branches, etc. Also note that the repositories support environments in

> BlueBanquise. Have a look in the repositories_client role documentation.

Reviewer: Is this repositories part a glitch?

Few useful commands:

* `git log`: display recent logs of the current repository
* `git reset --soft HEAD~1`: undo the last commit

Adding a new repository
-----------------------

> To add a new repository, simply manually create its root folder (if not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new repository, simply create its root folder (if not
```

existing), using the distribution to be used, the major distribution version
associated, and the architecture:

.. code-block:: text

  mkdir /var/www/html/repositories/centos/8/x86_64/

Then create your new repository folder:

.. code-block:: text

  mkdir /var/www/html/repositories/centos/8/x86_64/my_repo

> And add it into your global repositories, into file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And add it to your global repositories, into file
```

/etc/bluebanquise/inventory/group_vars/all/general_settings/repositories.yml or
if this repository is only associated with a specific equipment group, add it
into the repositories.yml associated with the equipment_profile associated, for
example in file
/etc/bluebanquise/inventory/group_vars/equipment_X/repositories.yml .

> If needed, it is also possible to defined minor version based repositories. To

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, it is also possible to define minor version based repositories. To
```

It is also possible to add an environment associated to a repository. To do so,
add the environment name after the *repositories* folder. Assuming here we wish
to create a new *production* repository:

.. code-block:: text

  mkdir /var/www/html/repositories/production/centos/8.2/x86_64/

  .. code-block:: text

    [root@management1 ~]# cat /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/group_vars/equipment_X/equipment_profile.yml | grep -E 'distribution|environment'
      distribution: centos
      distribution_major_version: 8
      repositories_environment: production
    [root@management1 ~]#

Update management nodes configuration
-------------------------------------

After each change in the inventory, it is needed to update the management nodes
configuration (and sometime even all nodes configurations if the change has a
wide impact).

To update the main configuration, simply re-run your management playbook.
However, few tips:

1. Do a dry run first before running a playbook on a management node.

To do so, use the `--check --diff` arguments with the `ansible-playbook`
command.

For example:

.. code-block:: text

  ansible-playbook /etc/bluebanquise/playbooks/managements.yml --diff --check

> 2. If you have multiple managements nodes, only update them one by one, using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If you have multiple managements nodes, update them one after the other, using
```

the `--limit` argument, specifying the nodes each time. This can be combined
with the dry run seen in 1.

For example:

.. code-block:: text

  ansible-playbook /etc/bluebanquise/playbooks/managements.yml --limit management1
  ansible-playbook /etc/bluebanquise/playbooks/managements.yml --limit management2

>   ansible-playbook /etc/bluebanquise/playbooks/managements.yml --limit management2

Reviewer: management3?

Author: Yes, solved.

              ip4: 10.10.3.1            # This is the ipv4 of the BMC
              mac: 08:00:27:dc:f8:f6    # This is the MAC hardware address of the BMC (for DHCP)
              network: ice1-1           # This is the logical network this interface is connected to. Logical networks will be seen later.
            network_interfaces:         # This is an instruction, to define bellow all host's NIC (Network Interface Controllers)
              - interface: enp0s3       # This is the NIC name ('ip a' command to get NIC list)
                ip4: 10.10.3.1          # This is the expected ipv4 for this NIC
                mac: 08:00:27:dc:f8:f5  # This is the NIC MAC address, for the DHCP
                network: ice1-1         # This is the logical network this NIC is linked to
              - interface: ib0          # This is another NIC, not in the dhcp so no MAC is provided
                ip4: 10.20.3.1
                network: interconnect-1

Then use the ansible-inventory command to check that the new host is listed on
the configuration and seen by Ansible:

.. code-block:: text

  [root@management1 ~]# ansible-inventory --graph

>   [WARNING]: Unable to parse /etc/bluebanquise/internal as an inventory source

Reviewer: Can you remove this warning from documentation? (if possible, remove it completely :stuck_out_tongue: )

Author: Done. I wonder if this would need to open a case to the Ansible team.

Reviewer: No, this is an expected warning since there is no host in the inventory.

Workaround:
```
# cat > /etc/bluebanquise/internal/dummy << EOF
[internal]
dummy
EOF

# ansible-inventory --graph
@all:
  |--@internal:
  |  |--dummy
  |--@mg_computes:
  |  |--@equipment_typeC:
  |  |  |--c001
  |  |  |--c002
  |  |  |--c003
  |  |  |--c004
  |--@mg_logins:
  |  |--@equipment_typeL:
  |  |  |--login1
  |--@mg_managements:
  |  |--@equipment_typeM:
  |  |  |--management1
  |  |  |--management2
  |--@rack_1:
  |  |--c001
  |  |--c002
  |  |--c003
  |  |--c004
  |  |--login1
  |--@ungrouped:
```

the related story above) and if you are using the hosts_file role on all the
cluster nodes, also replay their playbook, maybe limiting the execution to the
needed roles, using tags. For example:

.. code-block:: text

  ansible-playbook /etc/bluebanquise/playbooks/computes.yml -t hosts_file

Adding a new range of nodes
---------------------------

You may need to add a new range of nodes. You can do it manually, adding them
one by one, or simply use a small bash script to generate the content you need.

We assume here you need to generate a new range of c[1-4] of nodes, with ip
on range 10.10.3.[1-4]. Same kind of ranges for their BMC and interconnect.

Create a file /root/gen.sh with the following content:

.. code-block:: bash

  #!/bin/bash
  cat <<EOF > computes.yml
  mg_computes:
    children:
      equipment_typeC:
        hosts:
  EOF
  for ((i=1;i<=$1;i++)); do
  cat <<EOF >> computes.yml
          c$i:
            bmc:
              name: bc$i
              ip4: 10.10.103.$i
              mac:
              network: ice1-1
            network_interfaces:
              - interface: enp0s9
                ip4: 10.10.3.$i

>                 mac:

Reviewer: Question from students: how can I define the MAC address afterwards?

Author: Manually :-|
Maybe I can provide a better script that accept an input file, with 2 columns, 1 for BMC MACs and 1 for nodes MACs ?

Reviewer: I don't expect an answer or a solution. Just be ready to answer this question during any training/demo.  :grinning:

                network: ice1-1
              - interface: ib0
                ip4: 10.20.3.$i
                network: interconnect-1
  EOF
  done

> Save, make this script executable, and launch it asking for 4 nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save, make this script executable, and run it asking for 4 nodes:
```

.. code-block:: text

  chmod +x /root/gen.sh
  /root/gen.sh 4

You should now have a file named *computes.yml* inside your current folder with
the desired content. Refer to single node add story seen above on how now update
the cluster configuration.

Adding a new master group
-------------------------

You may need to create a new master group, for a new kind of range of equipment.

The stack is fully dynamic regarding groups. The only thing you need is to
create a new file with the master group name inside of
/etc/bluebanquise/inventory/cluster/nodes/

> For example, if you wish to create a new group "switchs", create file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you wish to create a new group "switches", create file
```

/etc/bluebanquise/inventory/cluster/nodes/switches.yml and add the following
content in the file:

.. code-block:: yaml

>   mg_switchs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mg_switches:
```

    children:

The master group is now created.

Note that master groups must always be prefixed by the string *mg_* to be
detected by the stack. It is also possible for advanced users to change this
prefix pattern in the general_settings part.

Adding a new equipment_profile group
------------------------------------

To create a new equipment profile, create its associated folder. We will assume
here that you wish to create equipment profile equipment_X:

.. code-block:: text

  mkdir /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/group_vars/equipment_X

Then, if this equipment need to be different than the generic equipment_profile

> configuration (/etc/bluebanquise/inventory/group_vars/all/equipment_all/),

Reviewer: I'm wondering if using path relative to /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/ would be more readable?

e.g. groups_vars/all/equipment_all/

Author: I was thinking about that, and for the stories (only this part), I prefer to keep full path, as maybe an admin will use stories after some time without using the stack, and kind of forget the inventory structure.

create new files into /etc/bluebanquise/inventory/group_vars/equipment_X and use
Ansible precedence mechanism to set your settings.

You can refer to the example inventories in resources/examples/ to see more of
these files.

You can now add nodes into this equipment profile. See adding nodes stories

> above.

Reviewer: Can we create anchors to refer other user stories with rst?

Author: Sure ! I will do that in a next commit :-)

Author: Done
